---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Glossary

## Acronyms


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Term</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Acronym</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Definition</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Greenhouse gases</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GHGs</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Greenhouse gases<strong> </strong>are a group of gases that trap heat from solar radiation in the Earth's atmosphere. These gases act as a blanket, increasing the temperature on the surface of the Earth.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Carbon dioxide</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>CO2</strong>
   </td>
   <td>One of the most common greenhouse gases.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Methane</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>CH4</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A common gaseous hydrocarbon that has a warming effect 25 times that of CO2.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Sulfur hexafluoride</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>SF6</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A man-made gas used as an electrical insulator that has a warming effect 23,500 times that of CO2. 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Carbon dioxide equivalent</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>CO2eq / CO2-eq / CO2e</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Carbon is used as a common form of measurement for all greenhouse gases. This unit of measurement indicates the potential impact of non-CO2 gases on global warming in carbon terms.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Kilowatt hours</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>kWh</strong>
   </td>
   <td>The standard unit of measurement for energy consumption.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Power usage effectiveness </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>PUE</strong>
   </td>
   <td>The metric used to measure data center energy efficiency. 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Global warming potential</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GWP</strong>
   </td>
   <td>The potential impact of greenhouse gases on global warming. Measured in terms of CO2e.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>World Meteorological Organization</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>WMO</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A specialized agency of the United Nations whose mandate covers weather, climate and water resources.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Million metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent </strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>MMTCDE</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Measurement term for CO2eq
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Nationally Determined Contribution</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>NDC</strong>
   </td>
   <td>The means by which members of the Paris Climate Agreement are expected to update their progress.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Conference of the Parties</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>COP</strong>
   </td>
   <td>An annual event involving all parties in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>United Nations Framework Convention on Climate</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>UNFCCC</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A group created to achieve the stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous interference with the climate system.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>IPCC</strong>
   </td>
   <td>The objective of the IPCC is to provide governments at all levels with scientific information that they can use to develop climate policies.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Science Based Targets initiative</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>SBTi</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A body that defines and promotes best practice in science-based target setting. For example, creating the standards for net zero
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Carbon-free energy</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>CFE</strong>
   </td>
   <td>This term is usually used to talk about the percentage of renewable energy used as a proportion of the total energy used
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Power Purchase Agreement</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>PPA</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A contract you sign with a power plant to purchase RECs
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Renewable Energy Credit</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>REC</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Renewable energy credits (also known as renewable energy certificates) represent the energy generated by renewable energy sources
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Paris Climate Agreement</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>PCA</strong>
   </td>
   <td>An international treaty agreed in 2015 by 196 parties and the UN to reduce the Earth's temperature increase
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>joules</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>J</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Energy is measured in <strong>joules (J)</strong>. 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>kilowatt hours</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>kWh</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Energy consumption is measured in <strong>kilowatt hours (kWh).</strong> 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>grams of carbon per kilowatt hour</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>gCO2eq/kWh</strong>
   </td>
   <td>The standard unit of carbon intensity is <strong>gCO2eq/kWh</strong>, or grams of carbon per kilowatt hour.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Voluntary Carbon Market</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>VCM</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A decentralized market where private actors voluntarily buy and sell carbon credits that represent certified removals or reductions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere. 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Verified Carbon Standard</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>VCS</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A standard for certifying carbon emissions reductions.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Software Carbon Intensity</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>SCI</strong>
   </td>
   <td>A standard which gives an actionable approach to software designers, developers and operations to measure the carbon impacts of their systems.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Useful Terms

* [Carbon Intensity](https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/practitioner/carbon-awareness#carbon-intensity) - Measures the amount of greenhouse gases emitted per unit of electricity produced.
* [Demand Shaping](https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/practitioner/carbon-awareness#demand-shaping) - The strategy of moving workloads to regions or times when the carbon intensity is less
* [Greenhouse Gas protocol](https://ghgprotocol.org) - The most widely used and internationally recognized greenhouse gas accounting standard.
* [Value chain emissions](https://www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/education/graduate-study/pgcerts/value-chain-defs) - These are scope 3 emissions according to the GHG protocol, and the most significant source of emissions. They encompass the full range of activities needed to create a product or service, from conception to distribution.
* [Energy proportionality](https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/practitioner/energy-efficiency#energy-proportionality) - Measures the relationship between power consumed by a computer and the rate at which useful work is done (its utilization).
* [Static power draw](https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/practitioner/energy-efficiency#static-power-draw) - This refers to how much electricity is drawn when a device is in an idle state. 
* [Embodied Carbon](https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/practitioner/hardware-efficiency#embodied-carbon) (also known as "embedded carbon") - The amount of carbon pollution emitted during the creation and disposal of a device.
